SELinux is a Kernel security module that 

To see SELinux Context Label on files and directories, use 'ls -Z' command
SELinux Context Label format looks like this:

unconfined_u:object_r:user_home_t:s0
   user	       role	type	  level

Each user that logs into the system gets mapped to a predefined SELinux user as a part of the Linux policy
configuration. After the user is identified, a decision is made to see if it can assume the Role.
Each user can only assume a predefined set of Roles. Each Role gives user different permissions. 
Next a check is performed to see if this Role can transition to a Type. Type is like a protective software
jail where when something enters type enforcement, it can only do certain things and nothing else.
This restriction bubble is called Type when dealing with files and Domain when dealing with processes.
Processes can have labels too, just like files and directories.

SELinux basically follows these principles:

1. Only certain users can enter certain Roles and certain Types
2. It lets authorized users and processes do theri job, by granting the permissions they need
3. Authorized users and processes are allowed to  take onlym a limited set of actions.
4. Everything else is denied

ps axZ - view processes with SELinux Context Labels
id -Z - view Context Label for current user
sudo semanage login -l - view Context Label for all users
getenforce - check if SELinux is enforcing its policies. 'Enforcing' means SELinux is applying policies.
'Permissive' means it's allowing everything and just logging events that would trigger policy enforcement.
'Disabled' means SELinux is not enforcing security nor logging anything.

Linux Distros that don't have SELinux may have apparmor application installed instead (ex. Ubuntu).

If you want to install SELinux on a system that doesn't have it yet, it's best practice to install it on
fresh OS before installing any other application. To do so, you should first disable apparmor:
sudo systemctl stop apparmor.service
sudo systemctl disable apparmor.service
sudo apt install selinux-basics auditd

Audit Daemon service is a utility that logs certain system events and helps build additional Linux
SELinux security policies personalized for your system

sestatus - check if SELinux is running

For SELinux to work, it has to have its module activated in kernel by boot loader. Also, every file on the
filesystem needs to be labeled by SELinux Context.

sudo selinux-activate - Configure bootloader to load SELinux Kernel Module at boot. This command also
creates '.autorelabel' file in root directory that will label every filesystem file with SELinux Context
Labels.

Now reboot the system so SELinux can add its Kernel module to the bootloader and automatically label
all filesystem files with SELinux Context Labels.

SELinux is running in Permissive Mode by default. You need to change it to Enforcing manually.

In real life scenario, you should let SELinux run in Permissive Mode for a bit to log typical usage of
your system so it can create a security policy specifically tailored to your system.

Use 'sudo audit2why' command and, for example, pipe it to 'less' to see SELinux logged events that it
collected during Permissive Mode

'ps -Z | grep sshd_t' output shows that sshd process is labeled with 'sshd_t' SELinux Type

'ls -Z /usr/sbin/sshd' output shows that sshd executable is labeled with 'sshd_exec_t' SELinux Type.
It means that, when executed, the file will start a process with 'sshd_t' SELinux Type.

'sudo audit2allow (--all)' command lets you allow one or all logged events in your policy. Pass
'-M $MODULE_NAME' argument to assign these changes to a new module (or so-called policy package).

'sudo semodule -i $MODULE_NAME' to enable your newly created module

'sudo setenforce $(1/Enforcing/0/Permissive)' to set SELinux mode

Mode set by 'setenforce' will only be valid until next reboot. This is useful for testing policies so
you don't get brickwalled by mistake. To put SELinux into Enforcing Mode permanently, you need to edit
'/etc/selinux/config' file. If SELinux policies are not inclusive enough, you may not be able to log
back into the system, so use this with caution. 

After creating an SELinux policy, two new files are created in the home directory - '$MODULE_NAME.te' and
'$MODULE_NAME.pp'. '.pp' is short for 'policy package' and it's a binary file, which SELinux reads. The
'.te' (Type enforcement) file is in text format and can by analysed to get a general idea about what
the policy enforces. 

SELinux confines processes into security bubbles called Domains. Domain is labeled with a certain Type.
The Type applied to process decides what rules to enforce. 

'sudo chcon (change context) $ARG $CONTEXT $PATH' command lets you change SELinux context on files. 
'-u' argument lets you change User label. '-r' argument lets you change Role label. '-t' to change Type 
label.

'seinfo $CONTEXT' - list available labels for each context, ex. 'seinfo -u' to view user context labels

'sudo chcon --reference=$PATH $PATH' - copy labels from one file to another

'sudo restorecon (-R) $PATH' - restore or create labels based on conventions for directory specified' 
'restorecon' command does not touch User and Role labels by default, only Type
'sudo restorecon -F (-R) $PATH' - restore all labels, not just Type
'sudo semanage fcontext --add --(type/role/user) $LABEL $PATH' - change label so that it's recurrent
and set as default label for file or folder specified. 'restorecon' command then restores this label
instead of label set by policy convention.
'sudo semanage fcontext --list' - list all file contexts

SELinux introduces booleans that change certain behaviors of SELinux. Most times when policy rules
don't apply where they should, a global boolean is set. Use 'sudo semanage boolean --list' to view 
available booleans. You can also use 'sudo getsebool' or 'sudo semanage boolean -l'.
'sudo setsebool $BOOLEAN $VALUE' lets you change value of a boolean specified. You can then use
'getsebool $BOOLEAN' to check the value of a boolean.

'sudo semanage port --list' - see SELinux labels for certain ports
'sudo semanage port --add --type $PORT_TYPE --proto $PROTOCOL $PORT' to assign a new port to specific
port Type. change '--add' argument to '--delete' to remove a port.



