To enable your storage device to use different filesystems, you have to partition it accordingly, ex.
one NTFS partition for a Windows system and one ext4 partition for dual-booting it with a Linux system. 

lsblk - list block devices

Block devices are basically blocks of storage space that Linux can store in and retrieve data from.
Only block devices of type "part" are logical partitions. In the output, the device sda is a virtual
disk and sda1, sda2 and so on are partitions on that disk. The disk devices on virtual machines typically
begin with letter "V". "S" stands for "serial" and means serial devices that may be connected to SATA or
ATA port on the motherboard. If you use NVMe devices, they will be named as "nvme".

sudo fdisk --list $DEVICE - List partitions and see more info about disk sectors

Disks are divided into sectors of a predefined size. Partitions have their start and end sectors. Usually first
one megabyte worth of sectors on a disk is left unpartitioned in case a bootloader needs to be installed there.
For the operating system to know where a partition begins and ends, the disk has to have a partition table.
The legacy way of storing this information was MBR(Master Boot Record)-type partition table, which was stored
at the beginning of the disk in a MAster Boot Record. Now most of the systems use GPT (GUID Partition Table),
which enables more primary partitions, less corruption, much larger partition sizes and more. 

sudo cfdisk $DEVICE - Create new partition table for a device

In cfdisk utility "dos" is an equivalent of MBR

Swap is an area where Linux can temporarily move some data from the computer's Random Access Memory. This is
done in order to preserve RAM when it's needed by software that's more active at the moment. You can check if
and where swap is located by issuing "swapon --show" command. To create swap space on your system, you should
first create a partition with a swap partition type. Then issue "sudo mkswap $PARTITION" command to format this
partition as a swap area and "sudo swapon --verbose $PARTITION" to set swap space on this partition.. To stop
using the partition as a swap area, use "sudo swapoff $PARTITION" command. Instead of partitions, you can also
use simple files as a swap space. To do so, you need to create a file with predefined size containing only 
binary zeroes. To do so, use utility called "dd". Normally, dd is using to converting and copying a file. In
your case, you'll use special device "/dev/zero", which generates infinite number of zeroes when an application 
reads from it.

sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/swap bs=1M count=4096 status=progress

This command means to take input of /dev/zero, output it to /swap file, make it have block size of 1 megabyte
and multiply it by 4096, which will amount to a 4-gigabyte file of only zeroes. Regular users should not be
able to read swap file, as it would potentially give them access to memory contents of programs that other
users might be using, so you need to make sure that only root user can read and write to this file. 

sudo chmod 600 swap
sudo mkswap /swap
sudo swapon --verbose /swap

To make filesystem on a partition, you should use mkfs.$FILESYSTEM command
