At command is used to shedule tasks. You can use it to schedule execution of your scripts.
For at command to work, At Daemon (atd) must be running on the system. You can use at
interactively by issuing the "at $TIME" command.. Then you can write any commands and press 
CTRL-D to finish. To list scheduled jobs use "atq". To remove a job, use "atrm $JOB". "at 
$TIME -f $FILE" lets you specify a script file that should be run at scheduled time. You
can also pipe specific command to at to schedule it. At doesn't allow recurring jobs.
To schedule recurring jobs, you should use cron. Cron, like at, works by running a daemon
service (cron) in the background. You can schedule cron jobs using crontab. System-wide
crontab is located at /etc/crontab. To edit crontab for current user, use "crontab -e" command
and to edit crontab for another user (ex. root user), you should use "crontab -e $USER".
System-wide crontab lets you specify user as which cron will run the job. After editing
system-wide crontab, you have to restart cron service for your entries to take effect.
To get tips on cron usage and crontab syntax, you should visit crontab.guru website. 
If you don't care about specific time at which you want your script to run and want it
to run regularly, you can put it (without .sh ending) in one of predefined cron folders in
/etc. These predefined times use run-parts command to execute scripts in a folder. If you
want to setup your custom folder for scripts to run regularly with cron, you can put
run-parts command in a crontab entry pointing to your folder. Run-parts is a regular
command that takes directory as an argument and runs all executable scripts in it. Use
"--report" option with run-parts command to log each script execution it triggers. You
can also use anacron, to ensure jobs that have been missed during the time the system was
off, get rerun at next boot. The most frequent period of time to run jobs with anacron, is
daily. Time in days is the first column in anacron tab in /etc/anacrontab. The second column
is delay in minutes at the job will be run after the anacron schedule starts. The third
column is the job identfifier, which will be logged. The last column is the command that
should be run. Anacron logs are located in /var/spool/anacron folder. You can change PATH
variable for anacron in your anacrontab so you don't have to use absolute paths to your
scripts in anacrontab.

