Shellcheck tool can check your script for any syntax errors, since the script won't
work if any of these are present. Shellcheck also makes recommendations on your scripts.
Shellcheck has a web GUI for you to paste your script's contents on www.shellcheck.net.
Shellcheck is also available for most Debian and RHEL-based Linux distributions as a
software package. To use shellcheck locally, just type "shellcheck $SCRIPT_PATH" and you
will get output with suggestions. While shellcheck can be a great tool, it can only check
for syntax errors, not the environment the script will be ran in. Some common errors that
shellcheck won't be able to detect are:

No such file or directory - This error can be a result of Word Splitting messing with your
filepaths.

File exists - This error can be simply avoided with running a test that checks if a file or 
folder exists: "[ -d directory ] || mkdir directory".

Permission denied - This error can be solved by running the script with root privileges.

Internal commands are commands that are built into the Bash shell. External commands are
commands that have are stored on the filesystem and have been added to PATH. To check which 
type the command is, use "type -a" command followed by a name of the command you want to 
check. To get information about an internal command, you should use "help $COMMAND". Use it 
with "-d" argument to just see command's description and with "-s" argument to just see 
command's usage information. To see a list of all available Internal Commands, use "help"
command without arguments. To get usage information about an external command, you should 
either use "man" or "info" commands. You can search man pages for a keyword using
"man -k $KEYWORD" command to look up commands associated with the keyword. To look through
man pages associated with a keyword interactively, you can use man command with "-K" argument.
Info command has more detail compared to man command and also contains interactive hyperlinks.
If you run info command without arguments, you will be presented with a menu with hyperlinks
for different command categories. "Coreutils" selection is a huge knowledge base on Linux
commands.
