Parameter is any entity that stores values. Shell parameters are used to store and reference
useful data that you can use in your scripts. Shell parameters are categorized into Variables,
Positional Parameters and Special Parameters. 

User-defined Variables are declared as follows, using all lowercase:

"

name="string"
name=1
name=1.1
name= "$COMMAND"

"

You can also declare variables directly from the terminal window by using "name=$VALUE" command or
sourcing a file with variables using "source $FILE". For the variables in source file to be able
to be sourced, you first need to add "export $VARIABLE" command in such file. You can modify Shell
Variables like that too, although they might revert after logout or restart, since some of them
are defined in startup or logon scripts on your system. If you know of such file, you can source
it to revert the manual change you did to the Shell Variable.

"

lain@WIRED:~$ PS1="$: "
	   $: source ~/.bashrc
lain@WIRED:~$

"

To reference any parameter in your code, you can use curly brackets with a dollar sign in front
of a parameter name or just dollar sign and parameter name. This process is called Parameter 
Expansion:

"

student="Sarah"
echo "Hello {$student}"

OUTPUT:

Hello Sarah

"

User-defined Variables are different than Shell Variables. Shell Variables are defined by Shell
and help with learning about different system information, let you toggle some functions, are
referenced by different commands and scripts and generally can make your scripting more efficient
and to-the-point. Shell Variables are defined using all uppercase for consistency purposes.

There are two types of Shell Variables - Bourne Shell Variables and Bash Shell Variables. As Bash
is a newer version of Bourne Shell, it does contain some of Bourne Shell's variables. As Bash
developed over time, new variables were added that are unique to Bash, which are called Bas
Variables. Sometimes these variables will be available to be used by you on hand in your scripts
or commands. Other times these variables will be significant to a specific command, which will read
data from or save data to one of these specifically named variables.

PATH variable is a Bourne Shell Variable that stores directories in which the system will look for
executables when you issue a command or it's referenced by another program or command.
HOME variable is used to store the absolute path to the current user's home directory.
USER variable contains the username of the current user
HOSTNAME variable contains the hostname of your local machine
HOSTTYPE variable contains processor architecture that the current computer is on
PS1 (Prompt String 1) variable contains the prompt string shown in the terminal before each command


